Hello how is it going up where we left off in the last lesson.
Today we're going to include pagination on the search results page.
Well this time going to be the numeric pagination.
Those who didn't like the pagination we created in the last lesson you'll surely like this new one because
it's much easier to create and you understand to begin with.
Let's open up the search that page file which is the template fire for displaying search results.
And again once you create the pagination as soon as the loop completes.
But this time we don't need to break the peach tags because the code we are going to write here is pure
THP.
OK the function that does all the magic force is called the pause pagination pay close attention to
the names of these functions.
In this case the correct is the posts not the post.
Ok inside let's open an array.
This function has its own set of arguments so let's go ahead and add them here.
If we look for the function in the Wordpress Codex we will see that we have four possible arguments
for it.
Are we going to use only CEU for now that are the following prev text and next text.
The logic is not inverted here.
OK for the breath tax argument let's IPN a tax that we want should be displayed and that can lead us
to the previous page.
So let's dive in here.
Previous and next text.
Last IPN.
Next we only this.
We already have a very functional pagination let's say Now let's search again for the letter A.
And there it is.
Awesome.
Finally you can browse through our search results.
As you can see here we have this text but it can change it using one of the arguments of this function.
This of course will be an exercise for you guys.
If you visit the link for the Wordpress Codex the one that we visit in this lesson you'll know exactly
which arguments you use.
Just be sure to add another comma after the last element of the array we created.
Otherwise you certainly stumble upon and never OK.
Well bonus for this lesson I will teach you how to implement a post navigation.
That is a sort of pagination some WordPress themes display within posts for you.
Guess you have an idea of what I'm talking about.
Let's take this Web site here as an example.
I am inside the post and if I scroll down to the bottom of the page I have here a link that points to
the previous post and another link that points to the next post.
How can it do that.
In fact it's very easy to begin with.
Let's open up the single that page beefalo have it open here this time we're going to add this pagination
inside the loop not outside the loop as we did in the two previous cases.
We want this link to be positioned before the comments form.
So let's open any post and I want you explain again what we're going to do.
Take a close look.
The links will stay right here in this space here.
Before the comments form OK so here is the file.
Let's close the beach be here.
Reopen it and here is going to create the H-E email structure for the links.
First we need a new row and here you're going to have to the first one we received the pages class.
This is our name I chose to use.
OK.
It's not any specific class that is you can use whatever name you want.
Now we are going to have a bootstrap class and since this first link will flow to the left you'll be
using the text left bootstrap class
let's copy this here.
And we're going to change here to text right and change the text to.
Now let's see what we have for now.
OK is it's displaying correctly.
Now we need to know what WordPress functions we need here to generate each link.
The logic is pretty much the same as the one we applied on the blog page.
So for the last link we use the next post link function and for the right link.
We're going to use previous post link function.
Pay close attention to this detail the word post in this functions is in the singular so whenever you're
creating posts navigation links.
Remember that the function is in the singular.
OK.
By doing this you already have a great result.
Look at us now we can navigate between posts.
Excellent.
One thing I usually do is change the direction of this arrows here.
For this I can use the first parameter of these two functions.
It allows us to format the link and the way we want.
For example here in the next post link.
I'm going to pass the string with this value here.
That is an arrow pointing to the left followed by the link and for the previous post link at best.
Another string.
That is first the link and then they're all pointing to the right side.
It's much better now more intuitive.
You think then that's it.
I hope you enjoyed this lesson.
See you next time.
The more interesting things about WordPress theme development by.